[MUSIC]
Hello again, and in this video, we're
gonna be talking about how C# is broadly
organized and the statements,
methods, classes, namespaces.
We're gonna be looking
at an issue of scope.
And also, we're gonna be,
when we push up on the keyboard,
it's going to print out our variable,
our guest variable of 500.
So let's jump in and
make a bit more magic.
We're in our script here, I'm gonna do
a quick recap of our game mechanics.
Scroll down to the bottom and
give myself some white space.
I've got my pen tool here.
We're asking the player to choose between
1000 and 1, somewhere in that range.
We'll say, for example,
the player's chosen 687 as their number.
And I think that's a pretty cool number.
And where our starting point
is to say well, is it 500?
We take right in the middle
of those 2 values, is it 500?
Which is 1000 +1 divided by 2, and
technically that would give us 500 and
a half.
And we have to round it down,
and that will give us 500.
From here, the player's gonna say, well,
no, my number is higher than that.
In which case,
we know the maximum is still 1000.
This was our max of 1000,
this is our min of 1.
Our max is still 1000, but
what is our minimum now?
Well, our minimum is
the same as our guess.
Our guess was 500.
Now we can say that our minimum is 500 or
we can say that our minimum equals guess.
And we can assign a variable
as another variable.
So if we're to say,
guess as a variable equals 500.
Now I wanna say, min=guess, that's in
other words saying min equals 500.
And then now we're gonna take
the midpoint between those 2.
So it'll be 1000+500 divided by 2,
is going to equal 750, which means
our guess is going to equal 750.
And we say to the player,
is it higher or lower?
The player's gonna say well that's higher
than my number, you need to guess lower.
That's great, in which case our new
range 750 becomes our new maximum.
And our minimum is 500, and
then we take a guess from there as well.
So by taking a guess, we are redefining
either the minimum or the maximum.
And then we're having another guess.
And then we're redefining the minimum and
the maximum, and so on.
If we go under our Start method here.
underneath int min = 1;, let's create
a new variable, which is guess.
So int guess = 500, we'll start it at 500.
We'll get a bit more sophisticated
soon with our 1,000+ 1 divided by 2.
But for now, we'll just put
it in as our starting guess.
You can see that Visual Studio is
saying you haven't used this yet.
That's great, we've only just created it.
We're gonna come down
into our Update method.
This is where we wanna use it.
If the player hits the up arrow,
they're saying that their number is
higher than the number we chose,
which means that our minimum is now,
undo that.
Sometimes autocomplete's
a little bit crazy, min = guess.
We can define a variable
as another variable.
So this variable up here
is being defined as 500.
Therefore, when we define min as guess,
min takes on 500 as its value.
The problem we're seeing is a whole
bunch of red squiggly lines.
And that's a lot of the topic for
this lecture for this conversation.
If we mouse over it, the name min does
not exist in the current context.
Why is that?
Well it's because it's out of scope.
And I'm gonna show you
a couple of things here,
couple of slides as well
to make this super clear.
I've zoomed out a little bit, and
do a little bit more scratching on
the screen again to show you context.
So the code blocks that we talked
about in the previous video
are also a definition for scope.
So you see our curly bracket here or
curly brace,
curly brace there within our
start method anything we declare.
So we're declaring and
initializing these 3 variables
can only be used as a variable,
can only be used in the Start method.
Update will have no knowledge of it.
So up here we have Update.
It is its own method with its curly
braces in here, that's a code block.
And it can't see, it can't access,
it has no way of accessing
those particular variables,
cuz it's out of scope.
Let me give you a diagram on
this to make it super clear.
I'm gonna go a little bit slow on
this to really have it sink in and
make it super clear.
Use an analogy of Russian dolls,
we've got the big doll and
inside that sits the littler doll, and
the littler doll and the littler doll.
And they can all be grouped
together as this cluster.
So we can look at our code as statements,
statementA, statementB.
Jumping back over here,
we've got these statements under debug.
We've got these statements,
our if statement and
then within that we've
got our debug statement.
So we've got a bunch of statements,
statementA; statementB;.
They're grouped into methods or functions.
We use the word method and
the word function interchangeably.
For all intents and purposes, they
are the same thing for what we're doing.
And our methods are grouped into a class.
We can see back in our script here
the class right up at the very top public
class our class is NumberWizard.
That means at this level, everything
within here is part of the class.
It's probably cleaner if I draw it over
here isn't it where we can see it along
our line.
This is all part of the class.
If something was declared in our class,
it could then be used in all the methods.
In our final grouping, our classes, oops,
wrong way,
our classes are grouped into namespaces.
Now, at the top here we can see using.
When we see using,
that's using a particular namespace,
our namespace is UnityEngine.
And that's another way of grouping
all of our content in here
into a particular namespace.
We'll be talking about
namespaces more in later videos.
For now we're focusing on this level
of class, method and statement.
Let's build upon this and understand
about our scope issue at the moment.
We have our class, NumberWizard,
within our cross we have Start,
our Start method and our Update method.
If we declare a variable within start,
say we're declaring variableA and
variableB within Start.
Then those variables are not
accessible within Update.
If we declare our variableC within Update,
it's not accessible within Start.
If we declare a variableD in our class, so
not within Start, not within Update, but
within our class level, then it can be
accessible in both Start and in Update.
And any of the other methods
that we have within our class.
And this variable declared at the class
level is called an instance variable.
Because it's available to this entire
instance, or this entire class.
And you might say to yourself, well why
not just put all the variables up there?
That seems to be better.
There's a great reason, which has to
do with the organization of our code.
And to keep our code as
compartmentalized as possible.
If we allow ourselves to access anything,
at any time, anywhere, then it opens
our whole code up to accidental mistakes
and things that we just don't plan on.
And mostly it makes it difficult to debug.
If something's not going right,
we can look in at Start and
say I know that the only place that these
variables are being used to change,
manipulate, or modify is within Start.
As soon as we move it up a level,
then we have to look in more
places to find what's going on.
So it's a way to keep things grouped,
and organized, and
tidy and to protect ourselves from some
accidents that might happen in our code.
Let's jump back over into our script here.
Zoom in a little bit more, so
we can see what's going on.
Back to our problem, we have min
that's being used in Update, but
declared in Start, which is not possible.
All we need to do is grab these 3
variables that we're declaring in Start,
cut them, Ctrl+X, up to the top of
our script, underneath class, but
above where we've got our Start method.
Give myself a couple of lines in here,
and paste those variables in.
So we've got int max, int min, and
int guess all being declared and
initialized, cuz we've given them a value,
at the class level.
So these now can be used in any
of our methods within the class.
Tidy up our Start method here.
Back down,
you can see that the red squiggley lines
have gone away, which is excellent.
And as a last step,
let's just print out our guess.
So Debug.Log; if
we hit save on that.
Back over into Unity, click on play.
We can see it prints 2 things,
up arrow key was pressed and 500.
Excellent, if we keep pushing it,
see the numbers going up over here.
It keeps guessing 500 over and
over and over.
I've got a really simple challenge for you
just to complete one other step of this.
And you've probably guessed it
already is to if the number is lower,
assign max = guess.
And print out of the console our
new guess if the number is lower.
So, pause the video now,
pretty simple step.
Just replicate what we've done in min,
do that for max.
And I'll see you back here in a moment.
Right, so pretty straightforward,
we will say max = guess,
in the instance that the player
said the down arrow was pushed.
And we'll just again, log out Debug.Log,
guess to make sure that this is working.
Back over to Unity, click on play.
And if we click on the down arrow then
it says 500 as well, up arrow 500.
Okay, so really not anything
of a game at the moment.
But we've created the foundation in
terms of having our guess variable.
We've talked about scope, understanding
now that we need to be declaring
our variables at this class level if we
wish to use them in Start and in Update.
And in our next video we'll get more
detailed in terms of properly calculating
what the guess is.
So that we get more of a game
in our game flow here.
Okay, see you in the next video